# Android_apps

This repository contains the apk file of various applications built by me using kotlin, firebase, figma etc.

<h2><strong>Affirmations app:</strong></h2>
Displays a scrollable cardview list of text and media just like a social media application. <br>
<strong> Concept used: Recycler-view</strong>

<h2><strong>Dice Roller app:</strong></h2>
  A Dice Roller Android app that has a Button to roll a dice and updates the image on the screen with the result of the roll.
  Displays different dice images on the bases of a random number generated by a button<br>
  
  <strong> Concept used: </strong>  
  - Import and use images from sites like material.io 
  - Advanced concepts like lambda function 


<h2><strong>Lemonade maker app:</strong></h2>
Help us bring our vision of making digital lemonade to life. The goal is to create a simple, interactive mobile app that allows you to juice lemons until you have a glass of lemonade. Consider it a metaphor, or maybe just a fun way to pass the time!
When users first launch the app, they're greeted with a prompt to pick a lemon by tapping a picture of a lemon tree.

<strong> Concept used: </strong> <br>

  - Clickable images and different responses on the basis of click duration
  -  Change taskbar colour

<h2><strong>Grocery app:</strong></h2>
  Helps maintain a list of itmes along with quantity and price <br>
  
  <strong> Concept used:</strong> <br>
  
  - Data storage and redundancy on device.
  

<h2><strong>Mars Photos app:</strong></h2>
Fetches data from the internet<br>
The MarsPhotos app connects to a web service to retrieve and display the number of Kotlin objects retrieved using Retrofit. These Kotlin objects contain the URL's of the real-life photos from Mars surface captured from NASA's Mars rovers.

<strong> Concept used: </strong> 

-  RESTful api 
- Moshi
- koil
- MVVM architecture


<h2><strong>USER-VERIFIER:</strong></h2>
This application helps to verify the users one by one by sending a randomly generated 6digit OTP<br>

<strong> Concept used: </strong>
- Online Messaging service 
- API written and hosted on remote server 
- ROOM database
- Fetch device contacts 
- Store message history on device
- Data transfer from fragment to Activity and vice-vera
- Tab view
- MVVM architecture

<!---ADDED DESCRIPTION ABOUT THE PROJECTS
